has to do with results of operations. Okay? So, as they… as they start to earn a profit, we're gonna… that increases equity. We're gonna throw that in a special line called retained earnings.
And if they pay a dividend, it's gonna… we're going to reduce the retained earnings, so retained earnings is the idea.
So every once in a while, it's very helpful to go back over, um.
Uncle Penny bags, because, you know, Uncle Penny bags get you into seeing.
Okay, what's going on with the equity section? Because that's… that's less obvious than is something about cash or not cash, or is something due within a year or not due within a year. Those are pretty strict.
that are pretty clear. Okay, so this is what we've done so far, um… Uh… yeah, let me… take a few things out first on the income statement. Let me take every income statement thing out.
And then I want to see what's happening here.
Okay…
Wait a minute… Oh, I see what's… oh, okay.
Uh… well, I'm not gonna do that. I'm just gonna keep going.
Okay, so… so the, um… So right now, we've recorded sales.
We've recorded cost of goods sold and wages expense, those three things. And so the net income, if that was all there is, would be 2.
So what I want to point out to you is.
that if I go over here to the retained earnings.
That's the same, too. Right. So… Uh… So you really want to pay attention to this label, I think.
Think and hide. Is there a label there? No. Yeah.
Okay, so we're doing stuff for one quarter, but I want you to pay a lot of attention to the label I put down.
For… for all the statements, like the income statement, the statement of changes in shareholders' equity.
And even… the cash flow statement, okay?
Those are… really, they're explanations. of how we got from the beginning balance sheet.
to the ending balance sheet. Right? And so that's why I built this sheet that flows from right to left.
From left to right, rather, and it's sort of expandable. What we're going to do is… you know, gradually phase these statements in. I mean, there's almost no reason not to look at the.
statement of changes in shareholders' equity, but it's a little bit of a side trip right now, so let's just don't even look at that.
Alright. Okay, so the income statement, what is that? That's one of the reasons that equity went from zero.
to where it is now, it's 2. Okay? Does that make sense?
Now, you know, so what happens… I've got the sheet set up so that as we record.
these income statement things, we're going to record a few more in a minute.
They're gonna automatically be thrown into retained earnings. When we do real… retail biz, we're not going to do that. We're going to do it more like accountants do.
And that's because there's a complex subject at the end of the class.
At the end of the semester, we'll get to something where it's helpful for you to have in your mind.
the process of the way accountants actually do it, because I'm gonna… interfere with it in some way. Don't, don't worry about that, yeah.
Okay, so that's where we were. Any questions on, like, where we were?
I'm ready to go. Did I lose people already? Oh, well, what can you do?
Okay. 12. Right.
Ah, now, this is a different kind of thing. This is a piece of information.
that says, at the end of the year, the market value of their inventory was $27,500.
So, what do I want to do with that?
You know, I don't know, I don't know, but one thing that comes to mind is, well, let me go in the.
the books, as they exist now. What is… on my books as the value of inventory at the end of the year.
Well, okay, so I go in here, we started with nothing, we bought 35.
They sold 25. So right now, the ending balance is 10.
Okay? And what that means is, if I go to the financial statements.
look at the inventory slide. If I had to make up… financial statements right now.
the inventory value would be 10. Okay? So that's… that's where we are. So this 10 is taken from that T account I showed you.
Right? That's where that comes from. Okay, um… Now, I gotta decide, am I gonna do anything about this?
Right? What would… if I did decide to do anything about this information, what would I do?
Well, I mean, I guess I would debit. inventory 17.5.
Right? I'd have to… I could do this. we're gonna end up not doing it, but, you know, let's just pretend.
Okay? I'm gonna debit inventories. 17, 5.
Right. And what that's gonna do then. Notice what it did to my inventory balance.
It brought it up to the market value. Got it? Yeah, does that… does that make sense?
If… I'm not saying I'm gonna do this, but I'm saying if I do.
what would I do? Well, now look. I'm not… I got a balance.
Right? So, if I'm gonna do this, I gotta put 17,500 on that side.
That, the system forces me to do. Now… What it doesn't tell me about is what I'm going to call it.
Right. So, I guess, since it's a credit. If I chose… asset account… then that would mean that another asset went down.
That doesn't make any sense. If I chose liability account, that means they incurred some liability. No, no, that's not what's going on.
You know, this is not an actual transaction where they're getting something and giving something back, right? This is just other information that I'm building into the… that I'm thinking about building into the accounts.
The beauty of the double-entry accounting like this is it will let you build things like that in if you want.
But it disciplines you in doing it. Okay? So that doesn't make any sense.
So I could say equity. You know? Well, it's not money raised from shareholders.
So, I guess if it's an operating type of thing, it's some type of revenue or maybe a gain.
So, in other words, if I write my inventory up.
I would also have to up my income. I would say, hey, we got a gain from holding onto this inventory when the price went up.
Okay? We could do all that. But we're not gonna.
Why don't we? Is it irrelevant to investors that they have inventory that's worth more than they paid for it?
Completely relevant. But it's just that we don't want to get into this game.
Of… we don't want to get in the game of having to talk with management all the time.
Saying, uh, oh… What do you think your inventory's worth now? Oh… Yeah, you think it's worth more? Oh, well, we'll go ride it up. We'll jack up your income for that, just by making an accounting interview. Oh, I don't like that.
Right? So, we're not gonna record anything.
Here. The reason I put the information in is because I want us to start thinking about it.
I'll tell you right now, there are some things like this that we are going to record.
Okay, but this one, no. In fact, the inventory rule, when you really drill down to it, it's actually a thing called lower of cost or market.
So if I would have told you. the market value of the inventory was $7.5 thousand.
And then I went and I looked and I saw 10. I go, hey, wait a minute, I'm gonna make an entry.
I don't want to show something on my balance sheet at a higher number than I know it's worth.
But it's one-sided. We write things down, but not up.
by rule. Okay? And to understand that rule, you kind of have to dig in a little bit and say, well, how are we making these accounts up?
We're making it from information that's given to us, or that the management's really in control of.
And so, they're more believable when they tell you the inventory went down than it went up.
Except in calculating their tax bill. Right? If you're calculating their tax bill, they want to say, oh, we've got a lot of losses here, we don't have to pay tax on that.
Does all that make some sort of sense? it makes us… unfortunately, when this stuff really makes sense to you, then you will be thinking like an accountant, and you will have.
I will have somehow impaired your mental abilities in some way, and hopefully made it up in others.
Okay, alrighty then. I can't remember, where am I? Let me see… all right.
So, uh… So I'm not going to do anything with 12.
13. Okay. Ah, the equipment purchased has a useful life of 5 years.
And it's going to be depreciated over a straight-line basis.
This is the kind of thing that's going to cause us.
Like, a lot of trouble. In the end. Okay.
I want to flip through this for a second.
So let's talk about the depreciation of the equipment. Oh, I should… this should be X5, I think whatever, it doesn't.
Alright? So what happened here? Well… First of all, I'm going to lay out for you where we're going to prepare financial statements.
Okay? So we're going to prepare financial statements every December 31st, let's say.
So one thing you notice is that. That the calendar time that's gone by.
from when we buy the asset, it's not exactly lined up with the fiscal year.
It's a common thing. Okay, so what… now, what's… what are the data in our problem?
Well, look… When a year goes by, we're gonna have one year of depreciation.
But the trouble is, we've also got these two stub-ins left, right?
That, in the first year, we're gonna wanna take 3 months of depreciation.
And then the last year of his life, we're only going to take 6 months.
in between, we're taking a full year. Okay? So, are you okay with that?
Alright, so how are we gonna do it? Uh, and I will… next time we meet in person, I'll draw some… I'll draw graphs over and over about this.
But all we're gonna do is just have it… is assume that it's gonna go down in a straight line.
Okay? So the book value over this time. It has to start here at 60 on October 1st.
2005, or whatever. And it has to end up at zero.
by September 30, 2010. Right, so those… those are points.
We kind of know. The cost to start and where it has to end.
exactly the path of how it goes down. We're just kind of making stuff up.
Okay? So we're just gonna… we're just gonna… gonna, uh… Assume that it's going to go down.
Like, uh…
you know, a straight line like that.
Why? gets the job done of going from 60 to 0.
simple. We just do the same thing every time.
Now, in practice, you might have had some classes that talk about tax depreciation.
They have special rules that only certain kinds of.
The depreciation methods you can apply. The tax depreciation usually is over a shorter life also than the real economic life of an asset.
So, the financial accounting depreciation and the tax accounting depreciation are usually two different things.
tax accounting depreciation, it's usually over a shorter life and faster.
And financial accounting over the economic life and longer.
Anyway, we'll talk about this, you know, again, almost ad nauseum.
Okay? So, now the question is… how am I gonna calculate.
there's 3 months of depreciation that I want to record.
Well, uh… Shoot. This… no, I'm showing you me now, okay.
This 3 months of depreciation that I want to record right here.
Well, I'm just gonna do it, you know, in a simple-minded way.
I'm gonna say, if the thing has 5 years of life, that's $12,000 a year.
Okay, just… linear, and then… 3 12ths of this year have gone by, so that's $3,000.
Okay. That's it. That's what we're gonna do.
How can I do that? Well… I can do that pretty easily.
Right? I'm going to, first of all. I'm gonna have an asset account, I'm gonna take down by 3.
And if I reason do the accounting identity. You're gonna see that it's… it's equity that you're gonna hit.
And it's… has to do with operating the business, because you bought this equipment to operate the business.
So I'm going to call that an expense. So, it's an outflow of value.
that was consumed… that was consumed in our operations.
What do you mean, value? Well, an asset… I'm gonna take the book value away, I'm gonna reduce the book value of an asset.
So, my use of the word value is very sloppy here, right?
I mean, if the books were 100… were the truth.
exact truth, then yeah, it would be the decline of the value.
Yeah, really, this is the result of an accounting allocation.
now I have another choice. am I going to record this directly in the property plant and equipment account?
like, do it there. Right? Credit, property, plant equipment.
Let's go look at the property, plant, and equipment account.
So, in other words, we had 60, now it's on the books at 57.
So what, you know, what I did was I just credited, um, PP&E for 3.
Okay, I could do that. Or, I could say, you know what?
I want to separate the depreciation. from the cost of the asset.
And so, I'm going to have an account. that when I put up a balance sheet.
it's going to be subtracted from the cost of the PP&E. I'm going to call that accumulated depreciation.
Okay? So now, what happens on the balance sheet is, my property plant and equipment's there at 60.
But, I've got accumulated depreciation of 3. So when I put those on the financial statements.
you get 57.
Hmm… Okay, so I, uh, it's… this is… This is, uh… great for me to do, because this is… the looks on your faces are always the looks on your people's faces at this point. You know, it's like, what the heck is this guy doing? He's just a bunch of stuff is happening, and I got…
It's arbitrariness, and… you know, but keep in mind, the thing you really want to take comfort in right now.
is that all of the stuff I'm throwing around.
I still have to fit in the basic structure.
Right? Yeah, on the balance sheet's going to be assets, liabilities, equities. On the income statement, it's going to be revenues and expenses.
So you should make lists for yourself and write them, like, 500 times.
Balance sheets, asset, liabilities, equities, income statement, revenues, expenses, and then we're gonna see gains and losses.
And so those 7 places are the only places I can put anything.
Okay, those are the only places I can put anything.
Asset liability, equity, revenue expense gain or loss. So, until you're familiar with it, 7 things seemed like a lot.
But once you get… to where you don't have to think about that.
then you can pay attention to how am I going to work this system?
To do it. So that's why, you know, like, I went through.
the inventory example. If we write up the inventory, what do we have to do in the system?
Well, I can make the inventory value be $27,500 on the balance sheet.
But I can't just do that. I have to also do something else, because the system makes me balance.
Then I have all kinds of reasoning I have to go through, so what do I want to do?
Oh, okay, I would… I guess I would call that a game.
I'd probably want to label it something like, holding gain, or something unrealized, to sing to everybody that this is an accounting entry, not.
a transaction that's locked in a loss. So, you actually saw a ton of that kind of thing, if it's a loss.
you saw a ton of that kind of thing on AIG's financial statements.
All those things they had to add back that were losses on this or that or whatever. I think I tried to.
tell you those things aren't cash losses. Those were accounting entries.
So an accountant did an entry. Basically, just like this.
they debited something, and I want to call it depreciation expense.
They might have debited also loss on. super senior, blah blah blah blah, whatever it is.
But it's an asset account, and that's going down.
Or that… that… I'm sorry, it's an account reflecting the fact that you wrote an asset down.
It's in equity reflecting the fact that you wrote an asset deck.
So let's look at the financial statements to see how that works, right? So see where the depreciation hit?
Right? That's on the income statement. That's one of the reasons why our… why our retained earnings went from zero.
Two, if this worked right. It should be 1.
Should be minus 1. Oh, I don't know what's going on.
Oh, I got them wrong. Alright, slide issue. That's minus one. Okay, don't… that's why the balance sheet's red, so I, um… Sorry about that.
I don't have my reporting hooked up right. But that's minus one, and that's how… that's how you would… You would… you would balance.
Okay? And then, you know, so the stuff we're going through.
is everything in the account, everything in the accounts just does this.
Over and over and over. And more, you know, sort of more and more esoteric places.
Okay. Ah, here's another issue we have.
by December 31st. they bought… they prepaid some rent on October.
First, but they prepaid one year of it. But on December 31st, there's not one year of prepaid rent left.
Okay, so what you have to do is we're going to go over here, I'm going to look at the prepaid rent account.
Well, right now, it's balance is 3. So, if I built a balance sheet, I would have to say, prepaid rent balance is 3.
Hmm. Okay.
And… Uh… But… I don't like it, right? Because 3 is what we paid for the prepaid rent.
But some time has gone by. So, look, guys, we have exactly the same problem that we have here with the asset on depreciation.
But we've got… Uh, but… it's just over a shorter time span.
Right? We're making up a balance sheet here. We need 3 months… we need to put 3 months of rent in this year over here.
And then 9 months of rent… of expense over here. We need to show we used… 3 months of rent in 2005, or X5.
And… and we're gonna use… 9 months of it in the next period.
Well, you know what? The accounts. the accounting system helps us do exactly that.
Because, let's go back over here and look at… what happens when I say, okay, I've got an asset.
Oh, I'm sorry, but… Well, what I'm gonna do is… I'm going to… reduce my prepaid rent.
I'm going to reduce an asset. to reduce an asset, I have to credit it.
And, well, an asset went down, why? Well, because we used it up.
And that's an expense. rent expense.
So, if you will. You could think of this entry this way.
an asset, prepaid rent, went down. Why did it go down? Well, because we occupied the space, and we used up that.
those resources. That's all good, but now I have to have a number.
Okay, number. No.
Oh, number, okay. No, no, I keep pressing the wrong button.
I have a stream deck to do this, but I'm no, uh… I know, like, 9-year-old streamer. I'm like, I still have to… Push the buttons. Okay.
uh, forget this balance thing, it's just off. Oh, I see what happened, yeah.
I got negative numbers over here, that's not good.
Uh… hang on.
Oops, just a sec.
Okay, so now I think we're going to be right. Let me look at the balance sheet.
Yep, I did it, okay. I'll talk to you about what I'm doing here. Again, what I'm doing is automating.
The flow of numbers through here, but that's, again, not what's going to happen. I'm going to show you that in retail biz.
Okay. So… Um, if I…
Let me… let me show you also kind of where we're gonna… Ahead with this.
Stick up this number for a second.
Hopefully this will work. Okay.
Now… Okay, so… now what I'm going to show you when I put the 3 in.
No, no, no, it's not… depreciation was 3, yeah.
Depreciation 3.
Look at the financial statements builder. So, look, it… this… it highlights all the places that we just affected when we did the depreciation entry.
Professor, should we be able to see the…
Yeah, we should, because we should, because I should have the right thing up.
Thank you.
Thank you, gentlemen. Sorry. Like I said, my Zoom skills are ill.
But, okay, so what I just did was I went back to the depreciation entry.
And I showed you, when we made that entry.
What happened to the financial statements? Well, the assets went down by 3.
equities went down. Assets went down, equities went down.
And… depreciation expense, something appeared on the income statement.
Hmm… And once we learn… there's another place that actually the income statement shows up.
And that is the statement of changes in retained earnings.
This is just listing why did… changes in shareholders' equity.
This is just listing why did Chero's equity change?
Well, they issued some stock. And right now, they have a net.
they've retained earnings loss. So, you know, if we put everything together.
Um, this 3 depreciation expense says why. the balance sheet went down by 3.
I mean, sorry, why the asset value went down by 3.
And this depreciation expense. figured into why retained earnings ended up the way it was.
The way it did. Okay, cool with that.
Oh, we're forgetting the cash flow statement. Let's go back.
Now, capture the financial statements… Okay, good, that went away, I wish I could make that one.
Yeah, now let's go to the next thing, which is the rent expense.
So, I'm gonna do basically the same type of thing that I did with depreciation.
I'm gonna lower an asset and record an expense.
So lowering an asset means credit it. record that the reason that the asset went down, that's an expense, that's a debit.
Okay…
Whoops, wait a minute. Now, what are we looking at? Okay, so now let's figure out what number.
we got going on here, okay? Well, we're gonna just do it the same way.
a linear way. We're going to say, look, if you paid $3,000 for 12 months rent.
That's $250 a month. So, you use $3 of it, that's $750.
Fine. I can do that. So, once I have a number.
Then, um… We could record it.
Okay, so what I want to do now is to say that.
I'm going to reduce my rent. Prepaid rent by… 70… 750, and I'm going to say that that's used up, that is, that's rent expense.
Why did… why did that asset go down? Well, because we used it up in running the company.
Right. The asset went down. $750. Why?
Because we used it up rent expense. in running the company.
Okay, let's go back, look at… now let's see what we did on the financial statement.
Well, again, we changed two things on the balance sheet.
We lowered the value of an asset. And that lowered retained earnings.
And we put something on the income statement. That is, we explained, added retained earnings get from zero to where it is now? Well, part of it is we recorded some depreciation.
Hmm… So I need, um… I need to revise on something.
is this, like, too many explanations? Would you admit it? No, it's… again, it's sort of like riding a bike, and you're teetering and tottering, trying to hang on, you know, and then it starts going, and it's kind of hard. But I don't want to… I don't want to shove you downhill too fast and make you skin your knees too much.
Okay. So, we just do this over and over.
And, you know, you can do it, because, I mean, I've done it over and over, like, since I was 20 years old.
So surely you could… you could hang in there for a little bit.
No, I'm just kidding. Okay. All right? Now… We have one more transaction.
Time has passed. So remember, we borrowed money.
And interest of 600 bucks has accrued. How did I get that? Oh, boy. Well… And again, I'm not going to require that we do interest calculations.
But here's how I did it. Okay, uh, if it's, um… monthly accrual, it's 12% a year accrued monthly.
Then 3 months went by, so you'll… you're going to calculate that that's.
$6.02 worth of interest. Okay, so we… Notice.
Nothing fell out of the sky. Saying we had to make this entry.
The only thing that happened is time passed. And we have to look at our assets and liabilities and ask ourselves.
Okay, is the balance I'm looking at there, is it up to date?
Or is there anything that else that I should record?
And by the end of the, uh… the period… We say, yeah, there's some stuff you should have recorded.
There's depreciation on your fixed assets. The prepaid, some of those have been used up.
If you borrowed money, there's got to be some interest effect.
But this is where the accountant really starts coming in.
Right? And not in just making these entries, but in trying to assess.
do the… should… do I have to make it? Should I make an entry now?
And so we just made a bunch of entries that are what… these are what's called adjustments.
in the lingo. Right, they're called adjustments, because.
that exercise I've given you of going and looking at the T-account and seeing what's in there, and it's saying, do I like it?
the process of. saying, if I don't like it.
the process of making it into something I do like is called an adjustment.
So, in other words, not a transaction, the accountants are adjusting the records.
Okay. God, this is just… so much fun.
I can barely contain myself. You know, it is very sick in some way that it is fun for me. I'm sorry.
that, like I said, I'm beginning to doubt my mental health is kind of seriously… something's wrong here, but it is fine.
Because now what I'm going to do, let's think through this, right? This is interest, time has passed and interest occurred.
So basically. The same thing that I did with the assets.
that an asset went down, and I had to record something for that.
Now, a liability is going up. But, the same thing's gotta happen to equity. Equity's gonna be decreased.
Right, whoops, sorry. Okay? Because remember, I've tried to get you to focus on the difference between assets and liabilities, the net assets of the company.
So, if I write an asset down. That's going to make equity go… that has to go down.
If I write a liability up, that makes an equity go down.
Listen, okay. So, I'm playing with the net assets, I'm just picking on different parts that have different signs, and oh my god, can you get confused.
Oh, you can get so confused. But we're not gonna, because… We got this debit and credit thing going for us.
So I have to say, okay, if time has passed.
So my liability has gone up. That's a credit.
Liability goes up. Interest payable, that looks like a good one.
And how much? Uh, 600 bucks.
Oops, I'm out of balance. 600 bucks. So… Well, why did our liability go up? Well, because we used money over time.
That sounds like an expense.
interest expense. So, look at what happens on the balance sheet.
Okay, on the income statement, again. I got an expense.
Equity went down. But here, a liability… an asset didn't go down, like rent expense and depreciation.
Instead, a liability went up. Okay, fine. If you… if you always try to discipline yourself to think in terms of the net assets of the company.
That won't cause you any trouble. Okay, that you're thinking more generally than trying to follow every last thing.
And then you go into the system itself to help keep straight all the details.
Of which there are a bunch. Um… There's something else I thought I should show you.
Okay, so for a while, what we're going to do is we're going to be learning a whole bunch of stuff at the same time. How the accounting works, but also how the software works.
And I started thinking about this, and I probably didn't emphasize enough.
Uh, the instructions information page. Because, in particular.
Um… Well, there's a little… there's some stuff you're supposed to do.
Like, review the chart of accounts. on every problem, the accounts that you have to deal with.
are listed for you here. And that's… that's called the chart of accounts, so any entity, they've got a list of accounts that they.
are gonna… that they use. And, of course, if you do some different kind of transaction and you need a new account, you might have to change your.
your chart of accounts. You might have to add a title or something.
Okay? But… really, a good first step to the problem is to look this over first and say, oh, these people have cash, receivables, inventory, prepaid rent, property, plant, and equipment.
The liabilities are accounts payable, long-term liability, interest, and so on, and here are their equities.
Okay? Now, when an accountant does this, looks at the chart of accounts.
They're thinking ahead and saying, hmm. inventories, I might have to lower cost to market that. I'm not ever going to say that again for a while, okay? Prepaid rent, got to be careful there.
When, um, I gotta always make sure at the end of the period.
that I've recorded any rent that's been used. Property grant and equipment, ah, I gotta have a depreciation adjustment.
So, another list, as you get. As we work these problems.
Try keeping a list. Off to the side, of everything that you think you're concerned about that you might have to revisit before you make up a financial statement.
So, so my list would be… amortize the rent.
depreciate the property. accrue the interest. I'm using accounting.
you know, buzzwords for this. But really, it's right down to prepaid rent, right down the property, plant, and equipment.
and recognize a liability for any unpaid interest. I would keep that list.
Right? In modern bookkeeping. modern information systems, of course, this isn't a problem, because you can flag it as soon as the entry… as soon as the transaction gets recorded.
You know, you can… build something in your information system, a reminder, if you will.
Right? I… as soon as I… as soon as I… put in a property, plant, and equipment. They bought property, plant, and equipment. I would set up a whole bunch of reminders for myself.
depreciated. Soon as they borrowed money, I'd set up a whole bunch of reminders, accrue the interest.
Okay, and these are the income statement items. Alright, so that actually… that whole problem.
you know, captures a lot of what we're gonna do.
But we did a bunch of things, you know, we had a bunch of transactions and a bunch of unfamiliar everything.
So, we're gonna practice it a bit. Oh, okay. That's kind of what the practice is about.
Let me see, so… I should humanize… this is my human touch.
Between… between PowerPoints and Excel, I put my face on. That's a human touch. Oops, gone, he's gone.
Nevermind. Um…
Okay. So… so… you know, I didn't tell you you had… I didn't… I wanted to work through that problem with you.
I think, for obvious reasons, right? It's just that there's a whole bunch of little details, and you follow around, and now these things I want you to… you're going to start practicing, you know, yourself.
Okay? So, retail biz is a very simple company.
And we're gonna get progressively more complicated, right? So, here's the data behind the retail biz.
So one is, it was… it was incorporated on December 1st.
And they issued some common stock and bought some land.
Then these transactions occurred in the next year. So, one of the differences that a little retail biz has.
is it's got a beginning balance sheet that's non-trivial.
Right, let's go look. Whoa, whoa, I'm all over the place here.
Okay, so, let's see.
Okay? So, again, I said, well, the first thing we should do is kind of look at what we have to do here.
And, uh… We're supposed to review the chart of accounts.
the notes, you know, I do this again for forum's sake.
that, just to remind people, there are footnotes to the financial statements, and this is kind of what they look like.
I don't think we're gonna be needing that too much, but I… But especially if I've got business students, I want them to always remember that the notes are there, okay?
And so we're going to review the chart of accounts.
Okay, so what are the… oh boy, this is a really nice little short chart of accounts, right?
They've got cash, inventories, land. no liabilities, common stock retained earnings, so the equities are 2 equities.
And there's only… there's one revenue and one expense.
sales and cost of goods sold. Okay? So, very small chart of accounts.
So if you want to do this right, you would go over here to your.
to this and click it off as completed. Fine. Also, I just reviewed the note, said something about the business, blah blah blah blah, let's go to it, right?
Retail biz, for-profit, we prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted. This is definition of cash, inventory, property, plan, equipment, all that stuff. Okay, good, good, good.
instructions, I reviewed that. Then… these tasks are in the order that you should do them.
Okay? Build the beginning balance sheet. All right, this is non-trivial in this case.
Um, so, I'm gonna build the beginning balance sheet.
If I wanted to automate it, did I do that? Yeah, that… there it is, automated, don't want to do that, okay.
Now, this part of the, you know, has been.
This is just the best way I can figure as to how to do this exercise, all right? Probably there's some stuff going on that… there are different ways of doing it.
or that I might even format it differently for you. You're not going to have to do this very long.
But this is just getting you used to what's on what financial statement.
Right? And it's just a… I think a fairly.
straightforward way to do that. So what am I talking about? The beginning balance sheet.
So as soon as I clicked beginning balance sheet.
Assets, liabilities, and equities popped up. Okay, that's what's on a beginning balance sheet.
What do they have? Well, let's talk about their current assets.
Well, if they have current assets, they may also have non-current assets.
Okay, what account are we talking about? Cash, let's talk about cash.
All right, so cash, and notice cash got filled in there.
So what happens when you do… when you build up the financial statements this way is they should, except for programming mistakes by me.
It should be dynamically showing you. Like, how… how the financial statements get filled in.
So you can visualize it.
Let's see, okay. So now, I need to decide… I need an amount.
how am I going to do that? Well, anytime you need to know an amount in an account at a certain point in time.
You go to these T-account viewers. And you view the cash account, right? So, let me do this one.
I should start off over here. I would do this.
I would say, hmm, I'm looking at to find out what's in a particular account.
that's a T account or a general ledger, in accounting words. What type of account am I talking about? Assets.
what, uh, account itself, cash. Okay, so over and over, this thing is making you… reinforcing the types of things you usually see as assets, the types of things you usually see as liabilities, because that drop-down menu.
gives you the… possibilities. Oh, can you not see the drop-down menu? Oh.
No, okay, that's a… that's a defect, but there's… what I'm doing is I'm clicking a drop-down menu on assets, and it'll show me all the asset accounts.
Okay, so look at this one. Here, at the beginning of this period, which was the end of the last year.
They had $55,000 in cash. That's got to go on the beginning balance sheet.
Okay. Financial Statement Builder, beginning balance sheet. 55.
Good. Ooh. I'm out of balance. I'm not gonna worry about it. That means I got more to go. Okay.
Let's see… let's do more on the beginning balance sheet, alright?
They also have… I don't know if they got any more current assets.
Oh, no, they don't have current assets anymore. Oh, no, they do. Inventories. They have an account for that.
So let's see how much inventory they have. at the, uh… At the beginning.
Okay, all right, so they have an account for it.
But they don't have any at the beginning. So I'm looking at the top line up here.
Does that make sense? This line right here? Okay, so go over here, they have inventories, they have none.
All right, so let's see if they have any other assets, um… beginning balance sheet.
How about the non-current assets?
Let me find some. Ooh… oh, land! Land looks like a non-current asset.
And so let me go look and see how much is in the land account.
Land. 5. Okay, that's gotta go in my balance sheet 5.
Now, I could be concerned, are there any more assets there? I'm going to go back to?
The chart of accounts. and say, no, those are the only 3 assets. And notice that told you whether they're current or non-current.
There are no liabilities. Um… I had a hard time making the software behave with this, so… I think I might have to do this.
beginning balance sheet. No, no, beginning balance sheet.
Uh… The… Mmm… none… Current liabilities.
Okay, there aren't any. So I'm just gonna leave the rest of that blank.
They don't have any payables. There is no current liabilities.
And there's also no non-current liabilities balance sheet.
Non-incurrent liabilities? Oh boy. No, not in current liabilities.
Alright, so right away now, I know, hey, they must have some equities.
So let's go check that out. Um… beginning balance sheet… They've got some equities.
What kind of equities do they have? They have common stock. I'm not going to do that one first, I'm going to do that one second.
They've retained earnings. Now, I don't know if they earn… if they did any activity last year besides buy the land, doesn't really look like it.
But let me just go see… What the retained earnings account looks like.
Retained earnings account is an equity? And let me see, retained earnings… Yeah, they started with nothing.
Okay, go over here, Financial Builder. They had nothing.
Oh, 0 here. Okay, so they had nothing.
And, uh… I'm still not in balance, so I have to figure this out.
Beginning balance sheet… The equity section, there's the only thing that's left.
And… Uh, common stock… I gotta go look at that account, what's the common stock account?
Aha! 60. Alright, excellent.
Financial Statement Builder. 60… Boom. And now, look, my balance sheet turned green.
So, turning green means it agrees with the answer that I have.
and my programming worked. To… to show you.
Okay? So that's the first thing I was supposed to do.
is build the… beginning balance sheet.
Boom. Got it. Record entries for transactions and events of the period.
Okay, anytime I have to record something. Everything that's recorded goes into the… To the, um… Uh, in the journal. That's the only way anything gets into.
Uh, the account is through the journal. Freeze pains is sometimes a good thing to do, to do freeze pains.
Okay. Alright. So let's see, transaction number one.
They took delivery of 49,000 cans of soda. Okay. And they… and they spent some cash.
So I'm definitely gonna record that. Right? Um… You use it… Hector, you said something that you pre-fill the counts?
Um, we were just talking about the… on the version of the spreadsheet that we use for the homework assignment, it, like, has…
they had the… the accounts were already listed, right?
Yeah, and so as we were just talking about, like, just filling in the values around the already listed account, yeah.
The amounts. Right, right. So, you know, now you've seen me do this one. This is an example of what I said when I'm trying to feel around for the right thing to do here. This is very tedious.
It seems to me, but I don't think you can skip.
preparing the statements at all, because it's just… You know, this is just too easy a way to learn it, to say, okay, this goes on that statement, this goes on this statement. So, as opposed to if you don't actually see that in any sort of.
way, then people forget. You know, like, for example.
Uh, I was in the SOM hall, I don't know if I told you about this.
When an economics professor said something about. revenues being something, and she showed the class the balance sheet.
To show them the revenues. And I just… almost exploded. That's on the income statement.
That's not a balance sheet item. You guys never want to make that kind of a mistake.
Right? You know, that's just… that's just, like, not knowing the first thing about accounting and being so sloppy with it.
But anyway, so… but… you know, it's tedious. Now, you know, back in the day when I took the accounting, I had to write them all out by hand. So, you know, that's tedious in some ways. So, any idea that you have that would be a better way.
a better experience to. to go through, to learn where things are on different statements, I'm open to it.
Okay, but now… now that, look, what we're doing is we're just going back to the stuff we practiced before.
Right? Saying, okay, they gave up cash. Of 649.
Right? And they got themselves some inventories. 4.49.
I'm gonna say that is an… Just for fun, I'll do this operating item. Don't worry about that yet.
Does everybody see that entry? Is that okay? That's… this is the kind of stuff we did a lot so far.
Okay? But what we didn't really show is… how's that going to affect the financial statements? Alright, so now what I'm going to do is… This is where we're going. Oh.
Oh, hmm. Oh, yeah. Okay.
So, what happened was… Well, the income statement wasn't affected at all.
Because the only thing that happened was… The assets got reshuffled.
Let me do it this way, um…
Okay, so before they did anything. The ending balance would just be the beginning balance sheet. They haven't done anything yet, right?
So let's capture those. Now, let's go make our first entry.
Where they moved one asset to another.
what's going to happen on the balance sheet, what's just… Oh, this is the only thing that happened, right?
cash went down and inventories went up. Total current assets remain the same.
You know, this didn't involve. earning a profit or not earning a profit, they just converted one type of asset into another.
That's how it shows up on the statements. That's a simple transaction.
the accounting identity stayed in balance by one asset going up and another one coming down.
Yeah. Make sense?
Good. Yeah. Yeah, you know, when I, um… It's funny, yeah.
It's funny, Hector, because I pulled out a version of the problem that must have been the one I downloaded for you, and then I pulled up one from my computer, and it was different, and I was like, uh, what's going on?
Anyway, I'm trying to remember. Okay, does everybody see that?
And again, if you want to do this for yourself.
After you see something on the financial statements. If you hit the script, capture financial statements, that should work on your computer, because it's a cloud script.
And notice I've clicked this box called Presentation Mode.
Okay, and that's what… that's what highlights things. Okay, so let's go with 2.
generated cash of $73,500 by selling Kansas soda. Well, look, we're obviously going to record that, because we got cash.
Right? And so… Asset cash is going to go up.
And… ooh! Now, mmm! Okay, so let's just do it this way. Cash is going to go up 73.5.
All right. Notice what happens over here in the financial statement builder.
uh, hey, I'm out of balance because I just increased cash, but I haven't done the other side of the entry yet.
Right, so my balance sheet, total assets, 133.50, total equity is only $60.
Right? This is… this is how the… all the machinery makes sure that we end up in a place that balances.
Okay? So I knew that, because I didn't complete it. So, something… It's got to get hit for $73.50.
What's that gonna be? Well, eventually it's going to be equity.
Eventually. But why did… why did people give us this? Oh, because we sold them something.
Okay? So we made a sale.
Notice who I'm… I'm talking about this kind of thing as a verb, not a noun.
Right? That cash went up because we sold somebody something.
So there's something that happened to stuff. That's… cash went up.
And there's… why did it happen? Both in the records.
That's the genius of accounting, right? This double-entry system right there.
That's the genius. At the same time you're recording the stuff.
You're recording the why.
All right. Okay.
This is operating. Okay, so let's see what happened to the financial statements. Now, you should start, as you do this.
You can start thinking about what's going to happen to the financial statements.
Okay. Again, if you're allowed to automate them, I probably didn't let you automate these.
There you go. But now, look at what happens. Now.
Here, I have… the reason the balance sheet is red.
is because I have it automatically closed the income statement into the retained earnings.
Notice the retained earnings are still at zero. Okay? This is how people would actually do it.
Alright? They're gonna… they're gonna take care of everything at the income statement, not inch by putting it into retained earnings.
not as it happens. But they're gonna do it sporadically.
That's called closing the books. You'll see what I mean in a sec.
Okay. But if I looked at the balance sheet, and I said, uh-oh, total assets are $133.50.
What are total equities? 60. That's $73.5 out of balance. Where's that 73,500? It's right there on the income statement. I haven't closed it yet.
So, I'm gonna move this number into there. But I want to complete the income statement first, so I'm going to move it, everything, in just a net effect.
You'll see how this goes, okay?
Wow. You count your inventory, nothing's left.
Oh. Now… let's go look at the inventory account.
Absence. inventory.
Uh-oh, here… Our ending balance is 49, but that's not right.
there's nothing left. Right? So… so if I write… if I put 49 on my balance sheet, ending balance sheet.
What am I representing to people? I'm representing that.
There's a benefit called the inventories in the amount of 49.
That's a… that's not true. I can't make that representation.
So I've got to get the 49 off. That 49 that I have.
that I have right here. has got to be zero.
Right? Because there's nothing left. So I know I have to have a… I have to reduce my inventory by 49.
And so, something's got to be thrown in here.
Okay, but I can't do that. You know, I'm not allowed to put something directly into here.
I have to go to the journal. And I have to make an entry to accomplish this.
Well, it's not a tough entry. But let's just look at it. So what I'm going to do is… I'm gonna say an asset went down.
inventories… by 49.
Okay, let's look at my T account. Aha, okay, so I… so I've got the inventory account now.
I've tamed it, right? But, uh… the debit and credit methodology says, mm, you're not done.
you need a debit of 49. Boom. Now, notice the red went away.
My numbers are okay. But what do I call it?
Well… An asset went down.
So it's some type of expense. But what… oh, no, some type of expense.
Experience. But what? I mean, in the abstract, somebody could have stolen it, or it could have been smashed up, it could have been… you know, we're not… we're not gonna worry about that much detail right now, okay? So if we look at the chart of accounts, we've only got one explanation.
that's available to us. Oh, you sold things, and that's what the cost of it was.
Okay? So our explanation for finding nothing out there in the… in the… the inventory is that, well, we sold it all.
That, again… In practice, that may or may not be right, right? Somebody could have shoplifted it, but I'm gonna… let's get rid of that, right?
Okay. So… oh, wait, I didn't… Damn it. Hang on.
I want to go through this again.
I want to reset, I forgot to reset it. Okay.
49.
Okay, what did I do? I lowered the inventory by 49.
And I reduce this income by 49. So that is, right now, my balance sheet is $24.50 out of balance.
Right? $84.50 minus. minus that… It's $24.50 out of balance, and that is hanging out in income.
So what I have to do is, I gotta make these accounts all zero out and put the net $24.50 into retained earnings.
That's called closing. Makes sense?
Because that's what you're doing to the accounts. Let's look at the, um… let's look at the T accounts. Now we're looking at temporary accounts. Temporary accounts are what? They start at zero and end at zero.
This one's not zero. I need to debit sales 73.5.
We have an expense account, too. And that one, cost of goods sold, that one's not zero.
So I'm gonna have to credit that. 49, okay. Okay, so let me… go over here to a thing called the closing tool.
Uh-oh. What happened? Closing tool broke.
Don't look at that. Pretend you didn't see that. Hide your eyes, right?
But, you know, I've tried to automate some, I don't know why it's not.
Oh. Wait. Oh, oh, you know what's wrong?
I made part of the entry to close it, but I didn't make the other part.
Right. So… No, wait. No, cost of goods sold. No, I didn't. I don't know what's wrong. I'll have to check.
Okay? But a closing entry just takes all the temporary accounts.
and makes them zero, okay? So… so if we go back to… uh, the instructions, we can see that the temporary accounts were sales and cost of goods sold.
Okay, and I gotta make those both have zero balances, so let's see what happens.
So I'm going to debit the revenue account. sales, because it has a credit balance, sales.
Uh, go ahead, sales. And it… this balance was 73.5.
Okay. Alrighty then, let's look and see, um…
Okay. Uh… Hang on a sec.
All right. So, I want to make the sales account go away, 73.5.
Right? So, so go over and look at my, uh… Revenue, Carolyn.
sales. Ah, it's zero. that's what I wanted, right? So it's a temporary account. That's why it's called closed.
Because you took everything out, you closed that account.
Right? It's… there's nothing left in it. all of its effects are thrown into… gonna be thrown into retained earnings. I also have to record… I also have to close the expense account.
And that one needed a credit. of 49.
Okay. So now… Oh, wait a minute, T-account. The tools T. Let's go look at my expense account.
Yeah? Not quite.
49. That's 0, right? I zeroed it out. Okay?
That's good, but my entry doesn't balance, right? And look, the difference… remember I said we're going to take all that to retained earnings, we're going to.
We're gonna take… close all the temporary… the temporary accounts are only there because we didn't put stuff directly in retained earnings.
Okay, so now let's do that. Let's do it all at once.
by taking… The… balance that I need, 24.
50, and putting it in there.
And… There you go.
Okay. That's… a hugely… a pretty complete tour of what accountants do.
of what the accounting system does. It grabs data, right?
It analyzed… you analyze it, and you… you add.
a story to it as well. So, I grabbed some data. What did I grab? They spent some money for inventory.
what's my story? Simple story. They got one asset by reducing another.
Then they sold something. They got some cash. what is my story? Well, their cash went up because they sold things to people.
But their inventory went down. Why their inventory went down? Well, because that's the cost of what they sold to the people. They delivered it to other people.
And so, these entries… just these little entries right here.
captured all that. All the movement of the stuff.
And… a lot of the reasons for it.
Okay. So, that's what I mean when I say that.
Accounting is about telling the story. Gotta begin with the facts, what happened?
Some of that is pretty clear, right? When… when they no longer… when you go out and you look and you try to count the cans of soda, there's nothing left.
Okay. Fact. What happened to it? Story.
Right? Cash went up. Why'd it go up? That's a fact. We can count it. Why?
Did they issue more shares? No. They sold something to people, and that's what people pay. Aha! That's a reason.
We're doing all that at the same time. And making all the numbers work.
So, if you're sitting here and you're going like this, you should be going like this at this point. You should be going like this.
It's like… because we're doing 6 things at the same time, or a bunch of things at the same time.
All within a structure. That gives us important, positive clues that is, oh, our entry didn't balance yet, or you gotta do something else, right? You gotta put in something more.
Assets went down. Why did it go down? You gotta tell me the story why it went down.
You have to. You have to tell me, otherwise your books are not balancing.
That's the power of double-entry accounting. Sort of enforcing that.
But of course, it only… it only applies to things we recognize.
If we decide not to recognize something. You know, like, uh, our bid got accepted by the city, don't recognize it. We don't ever kick that logic off.
So that's just something that's outside. of the accounting, uh… of the system. It doesn't get in and get crunched in this way.
Right? So… That's why the first exercise we did was an exercise in.
Let's think about what we're going to recognize. You know, if they get cash, yes, okay? And we did a whole bunch of things where the answer was no, we're not going to recognize it.
Okay? And that's to set you up to… to see that that's a huge filter.
But once… we put something in, you need to… you should really understand what happens to it.
You know, what is… what are we going to do with the numbers that we do include?
So basically, anytime we include a number, we have to include some reasons for it.
Again, the reason for the first entry. Here, they got… they spent cash. There's… see, see, the very first entry, I should.
show it to you. I'm pointing, like, you can see it. I know you can't see my computer because you're not here.
Here we go, okay, let's see, where are you going? Where are you going? What, what, what?
Cool. Oh, sorry. Okay, so the first entry, let's talk through that.
You can do it either one of two ways.
you can start with, hey, cash went down. Why did it go down? Well, they spent it to get something, inventories.
Or you can say, they… They… they increase their… their… this asset inventory.
Oh, how did they do that? What's the story behind that? They spent cash for it.
That's easy, right? So anything that involves directly an asset or liability, people's, you know, people catch on to those really quickly.
It's these other entries down here. where I debited cash, and then I credited something called sales.
And I've thought about, you know, why is this a hard thing? And the best I can say, and again, you guys can help me with this.
Look, when my explanation of entry number one involved two things.
two assets. Inventory and cash. One thing went up because another thing went down.
Okay? Fine. Entries 2 and 3. are different, right? The reason isn't.
the reason is just almost like a pure reason.
it's not tied to anything. Cash went up. Why did it go up?
And this is the only thing I can think of is, my explanation is a verb.
Because you sold something to somebody and they paid you for it.
That… we just… we just… Shortcut that by saying sales.
Or, in the next entry. Uh, why did your inventories go down?
Well, because we sold those things when we delivered them to customers.
Right? It's the cost of the things that we sold.
But again, it's… you want to think in terms of a verb.
And then the closing entry, that's a different kind of thing still, that's just tidying up.
the rec… that had to do with the way we decided to do all this exercise.
That is, we have these temporary accounts that are reasons.
But they all have to flow into. Assets, liabilities, and equities. And in particular.
The reasons, all the… all the reasons we're recording are hitting equity.
Right? The sales, the cost of goods sold, all that stuff hits retained earnings.
So, that's how it works. Um…
Wow. You know, I mean, that evolved over, you know, thousands of years or so, where people figured out.
Yeah, you can just imagine, I mean, there are some very big.
leaps of abstraction that we did in doing this.
And, you know, we started off… By just sort of keeping track of stuff.
But what we… Where there was a big change.
is that as this came in and this went out.
Okay, so my explanation of debits and credits are.
Debits are the things that come in, and credits are the things that go out.
I didn't really know how that works with temporary accounts. You know, it works eventually with the equity section.
But, um… But anyway, that's… that's the whole accounting process. So, we've seen transactions.
We, uh, I don't… I don't mind going over it at all, Larry.
Uh, we've seen transactions. We see how you analyze it, and we've seen how you, um… record things, but it is important that you understand this recording step, that everything has to come in through the journal, and it has to be balanced.
And that means the records that we look at on the tail end are going to reflect some of those properties.
Now, let me try to find anybody that wants to see me do the, um… The other side, let me try to download the actual… Larry, do you want me to do the one in the form you had it?
Yeah, I was just slightly confused about that last part.
Okay, so, so did you have… So, so is the… is the problem you're looking at, does it have all of the… all of the things in the financial statement builder?
Yeah, so they're all…
Okay, let me try to find that. Let me try to find that.
I think I can on Canvas somewhere, Shirley.
gave us login, I don't know what… That ID… am I sure it's me?
The support for remote teaching, excellent, good, good, good.
Uh, assignments, maybe? We did retail bills… We download it.
Open it.
Ew, come on. Aha, yeah, so… I hope that I get to quit revising this thing at some point.
Ah, okay. So I'm gonna, uh… Uh, do a little bit of stuff for you. Where's my…
Zoom meetings, Zoom meetings, Zoom meetings… Yes. Okay, good.
So… Region is… no.
I got Excel. How about this?
Ah, so is this what you see? Okay. So… What I wanted you to do here was to thank.
What statement would that item be on? Uh, it's a liability. It's a balance sheet.
let's call it… Uh-oh, why didn't it… did yours not work? Oh, wait, enable editing, sorry.
It's my own spreadsheet, okay? So, beginning balance sheet.
Yeah, that's what we have.
Now, where will you find it? Uh, looks like it says non-current liability, so I'm saying non-current liabilities.
Sorry, your screen is still currently black.
What's going on here? Wait.
Hmm…
So there's this one.
You saw it for a minute, didn't you? Or not.
Yes.
Okay… okay… protected. Why are we protected view?
Uh-oh. Excel limitations.
All right, let me… stop this.
uh, let me say… Let's save it for a second.
And… procure this one, no.
Okay. And… Well, that's the one that we did, I think, so let's see, uh… Downloads…
Okay. Now then, I'm gonna try… do it again. Oh, wait.
Okay, there you go.
Most credit's not going to show this, and I don't know why.
I don't know why it says protected view.
Okay, I know what I'm gonna do. Instead, I can do this.
All is not lost.
Go over here to the financial statement builder. And I'm gonna… Disallow all of these things.
Oh, I could have done it like this. And what I'm gonna do is…
Yeah.
Hang on, one more time.
Now, I do have to tell you that I'm… very… stubborn about.
It's still things happening to me that I don't know what's happening.
Ah, okay.
Okay. Now, are you seeing something that looks… Familiar?
Okay. All right. So… Um… the…
I guess the real way to do this is, like, let's see this thing, no current liability, or cash, let's say, right here, forget this for a second.
If you go back, that's the account. name. So if you go back to the chart of accounts.
You can see that cash is a current asset.
Yeah, yeah, this is what we…
See that? Okay. Where is the current asset going to appear?
Well, it's going to appear on the beginning balance sheet.
as a… Current asset.
And… oh, I'm sorry. Wrong.
It's gonna be on the beginning balance sheet. As a current asset.
Okay, and so the amount of it, we figured out before was, like, 55.
Did it work? Yeah.
So, the idea of this exercise is to. start getting you to associate these things in the account or explanation with where you're going to find that.
in the financial statements. I'm not saying it's the best exercise in the world.
But that's the idea of it. So, like, um… This is a non-current.
Not current liability, okay. Okay, so no current liabilities appear here.
What about inventories? Well, that can be on your beginning balance sheet.
And…
Um, Professor, I think we're looking at two, like, we're currently looking at the chart of accounts. We're not…
Wait, what's going on? Okay, good. Thank you for…
Alright, wait. Okay, sorry. Because I, um… I gotta get one and only one.
Uh… version of this in front of me, okay?
Yeah, okay. So… Beginning balance sheet.
Now, you see that? Did I get beginning balance sheet right?
Okay, okay, okay. Non-current liabilities. You know, I… again, I'm trying to give you an exercise that.
get you familiar with… Where everything is in the balance sheet, in all the financial statements.
Right. So… so here's the basic… one of the basic educational problems here.
is that the way this is usually done. is statement by statement.
That is just, oh, this is on the balance sheet, oh, this is on the income statement, oh, this is whatever, right?
And… and, you know, I understand why. We would teach it that way.
But the trouble is, if you do that, then people think these things are disconnected.
You know, you get… you'll even get people asking the following kinds of questions, which is more important, the balance sheet or the income statement?
That's stupid, right? They're a system that all works together.
So, what I'm trying to get us to do is always focus on.
this whole system of financial statements. And to see how it fits. We start from the left.
We end up on the right, we got a bunch of things that happened, things in the middle that tell us what happened.
And so, you know, I'm not… I'm not doing it one thing at a time, basically.
Okay, so inventories, what is that? That's, uh, that's… that's a thing, A, it's on the beginning balance sheet.
And B, it's a current asset. And that was worth nothing. They didn't have any.
Okay, common stock, what is that? What statement's it on? That's a beginning balance sheet item.
You can set ending balance sheet if you wanted to, by the way, but I'm doing it because my head works.
As soon as I see something, I'm thinking, begin… if the permanent account, like assets, liabilities, or equities, I'm thinking beginning balance sheet to ending balance sheet. The first thing in my head's the beginning balance sheet. That's why I'm doing it this way.
Okay, uh… common stock. Whoop, it's an equity.
Okay. And it was 60. and retained earnings, that's in.
and equity.
And that was nothing. Okay, and no current liabilities. Well, that's the balance sheet.
That's current liabilities. And that's nothing.
Okay, and then… What is it, land? Oh, that's a non-current asset.
And that was 5. Okay? So now the balance sheet turned green, which means that I just built the beginning balance sheet.
So let's keep going. Now, when I see these items.
Cost of goods sold, sales. Those are income statement items.
Okay? So, the statement that it's on is the income statement.
And that's… it's a… that's a revenue. No, no, no, that's an expense, sorry.
And the amount of cost of goods sold was 49. Unfortunately, I remember all the numbers, this is not helpful, I understand.
Yeah, okay? Sales, that's also on the income statement.
And that's, uh, revenue. And that's, uh… let me see what my income statement looks like before I put the number in.
Oh, look, you know. the income statement is being built.
So now let me put 73.5 in here.
Now I just built the income statement. Last thing, I gotta build the ending balance sheet.
So… so again, look, I've got all the balance sheet accounts.
Here, I've got liabilities and things that are assets and so forth.
So, I could do this. ending balance sheet, then I could say.
Copy that, and… Uh… paste it in here.
Okay, and… So, that's, uh… No non-current liabilities, so it's non-current liabilities.
Cash is a current asset. inventories is a current asset.
Common stock is an equity. Retained earnings is an equity.
And… uh… No current legal leases there.
Uh, land is a… Um… where is it?
It's a non-current asset. Okay? So that thing stays at 5.
I can't remember what some of these other things were. Oh, I remember retained earnings was $24.50.
Yeah, I see that.
Uh, inventories were zero. And… Uh-huh.
I have 60. I had 60 for common stock and 79.5 for cash.
Yeah, common stock, common stock was 60. And… and cash was 79.5.
And, you know, again, but me putting in all these numbers, I should really be going back and forth to.
this guy over here, right? Um, to say… Like, uh, oh, asset invent, like… So that's zero for, uh… inventories, and cash is, yeah, 79.5, that's what we figured out.
So, you know, again, what we've built, what we just built was… kind of all this.
I guess my main question was, I had a yellow on shareholders' equity, and I was…
Yeah, I wasn't clear on whether that was supposed to be green.
Uh, this one? Yeah, okay. So, you know, I haven't talked about that much right now, but let's go back and look at where that.
is, okay. So, this is an additional statement, again, that tells us how did all the shareholders' equity accounts change?
Well, the fact is, they issued some common stock.
And that changed the common stock account by 60, and the.
And that… so that was that. That's a common stock issuance.
But another thing that happened is they had. So that's the… that's the 60. They went from zero, uh, no, wait.
No, no, I'm sorry. They didn't issue stock at all.
So look, the beginning share of equity was 60.
And so, this just says it started at 60 and ended at 60.
balance at those points in time. But the only thing that happened was they earned net income.
And so, uh, that… There's a tricky one. The statement is… Uh-oh.
Well, you couldn't put it in, because it's not in the list.
That's bad. Statement.
What if I put it in here? Why didn't it go to the list?
What is it… what is it called over here?
Changes in shareholders, equity. Is that what gave you trouble?
Oh, so it just had to be statement of changes and shareholder equity?
Yeah, it looks like my… Let me see something here, hang on.
Uh… what do I want to do? Data? Data validation… Okay.
I got a list, and the source is C146.
Okay, hashtag… Let's see, like, 46… Don't pay no attention to the man behind the curtain.
Oh, I just uploaded it into the web version of Excel, and I got…
I was able to select statement at Changes.
Yeah.
Oh, really? Oh, boy, this is wild. 146. Oh, it's not on here, I don't know what happened.
Because if I said… Statement of changes… In cheerful rooms.
equity.
Oh, great.
wait a minute… that was… what did I say? Data?
C146. Wait a minute…
Hmm. All right, I have to operate on Excel.
That's one reason that, you know, I… Again, I'm open for all ideas about how to do this, but you see the problem, right?
That… that the problem is, you… you want to… start getting people to see the structure by filling it in at first.
Now, is… now, the fact is, very quickly, we'll move off to where the financial statements are autofilled. You know, once you already know what goes where.
Um, you know, other types of exercises here would be like, um… Uh, matching, right?
Here's an item where… which statement does it go on, things like that. So that's what I was kind of motivated by, but it looks like my execution was not good.
Sorry. Okay?
All right, so what we're gonna do, uh… you know, again, like, next time, or whatever, we can do here.
is… let me see…
I think, you know, what we do is just practice this a lot.
Uh… And, you know, we have to… lots of… we want to practice this.
The minimum amount of time you have to… you have to do it to get this down, right?
But I'll probably… I probably will overshoot a little bit, but that's okay, you know, but we don't… because you don't want to undershoot.
But I want to make sure we have enough practice that a lot of the things.
That, uh, that you see in me are just sort of second… second nature.
Uh, start going that way to you. But hopefully, in this exercise, you've seen.
started to see some of the advantages of. just the system itself and how it works, and sort of the things that accountants play with, like journal entries.
NT accounts, and the financial statements, and you're starting to see how this whole.
team of things is marshaled and used to… in the financial reporting process.
Just think about this. The techniques that we just did.
Those are the same techniques that Amazon uses for everything.
Yale uses for everything. You know, and… you know, just the mind-boggling complexity. Goldman Sachs accounting, everything is. The U.S. Government accounting.
this, right? It's just this jazzed up, and… but applied over and over and over and over.
To every little deed… a bunch of details. But what we're doing is we're capturing it.
We're capturing other… we're recording other information at the same time that we need to make up the financial statements.
And we're aggregating and capturing and pushing forward and pushing out.
financial statements that are based on a vast amount of information.
Right? But this is it. You know, this is the way it works.
It's remarkable. Okay, well, uh… So… so hopefully, I think this is sort of one of the issues that people have, is.
It just… understanding… How unbelievable is… These techniques are. So, on Wednesday.
More practice. More practice. Alright, see you then. Hopefully in person.